Good morning.
This is Batsoop Yum.
I'm honored to host this photography panel with three legendary photographers, Drift, Priyanka
Patel and Blessing Atas.
I love to collect photography.
I love to collect NFT photography.
I have a photography gallery, an ohm setup, dedicated to photography.
And no one in the audience should take that to mean that I'm an expert in photography.
So I'm going to moderate this panel and I'm here today to learn as much as you all are.
Just because, again, I own a bunch of photography.
It doesn't mean I know exactly what I'm doing in collecting photography.
So I'm hopeful that these three, again, legendary photographers will help us understand better,
a better understand there are what goes behind photography and I'm okay.
Sorry, there was a technical difficulty.
What goes behind their work and how their lives might have changed through NFTs.
So quick intros.
Again, I'm Batsoop Yum.
I'm a collector, but I'm also a part of the 652-19.
I've been collecting this space since, I don't know, 2020 or so.
And again, a big, big fan of photography.
So to start, let's just do quick intros, maybe take a couple minutes each of our guests.
I want to remind everyone first that if you have a question, go ahead and type it in the
chat or you can go onto Twitter and use hashtag NFTQ&A.
That will also send it to the team at UNIC and they will flag it for me.
So again, please feel free to ask questions.
I'm here to learn as much as you all are and let's get started.
Let's start with Priyanka and let's do intros.
Everybody can do, rather than just doing the normal intro, I think what I'd love to hear
and I think the audience would appreciate is what was your artistic journey like before
NFTs and what is your artistic journey been like since you've joined the space and since
NFTs.
So Priyanka, hopefully you could hear all that and if you would like to kick things
off, please do.
And we have, by the way, the artists will be displayed as they're giving intros just
to give the audience a sense for the kind of work that they do.
Yeah, so, G.M.
I would just like to thank, for spending the time at the University for inviting me.
This is a huge honor.
So a little bit about myself.
I'm Priyanka Deil.
I'm a photographer and the co-founder of Salutation Art Discollective called the Puerl.
About my artistic journey, I first, as far as I can go back and remember, like, first
on my pick up the camera, I was sometime around when I was 16.
I had this Sony cyber shot that my aunt gifted me and I was just using that to take photos
in and around my home and just try to perfect on positions.
That's where I started, but when I went to college, I started shooting more portraits
of friends and family.
As a person, like I'm very shy and introverted and I did not like being photos.
I was always the one monitoring to be the photographer whenever we had a gathering or
anything.
So that's how my interests grew more than just like going around your home and taking pictures.
And then in 2010, my elder brother gifted me my first DSLR, which pretty much changed
the course of how I pursued photography even though I was studying engineering in my undergrad
and as a master's student.
I went to grad school in LA and I took a far-time job as an assistant photographer there.
I wanted to keep doing photography even though I was doing engineering.
I wanted to explore more, like, only to shoot more than just landscapes of portraits.
So that's why I took up a job at the University for the school's newspaper, which gave me
an end to shoot events, which I ended up loving.
So after my graduation, I moved back home to India and I started doing setting photography
back home, which pretty much like they started my career, end of photography, because I had
a lot of friends and family, like, connections back home.
It was kind of sort of easier for me to, like, fine-tute there and fine people who really
believed in me and loved my work and wanted to give me a chance when I just aren't a
dog.
So that's where my journey started as a photographer, like professionally, back in 2013.
Since then, I've tried a lot of different kinds of photography, but I realized that the
one that I enjoyed the most was where I was not told what I need to photograph.
So, like, basically, whatever I photographed when I was traveling, which was mainly landscapes
and city-scapes.
So that's what I tried to do more of starting in 2016.
Like, I tried to travel as much as possible and do all that.
Fast forward to 2020, already into the...
So, fast forward to 2020, like, a month into the pandemic, I started posting a lot of my
art on product, and I somehow found this community of photographers and artists who were also
on Twitter, which I had no idea about.
And they're the ones who actually introduced me to NFVs later on in October and November.
And that's when I first heard about technology, and I went to my brother and was like, hey,
like, there's this whole thing where people sell their art.
Like, I heard about Bock and people for the first time back in November 2020, and my brother
kind of explained me what all of it meant, like what NFVs are and what it means.
But I did not enter a space, like, I make a ball of it, or I drop my first NFVs until
10, 2021, which is when I dropped my genesis term, Ph.P.'s.
Since then, I have...
So that's almost two years now.
So since then, I've had an amazing time meeting people all over the world.
And last year, that's how last year, after meeting a lot of photographers and artists,
I decided to...
We decided to actually form a collective for a validation artist in the space called the
Baro.
And it's almost exactly a year since we launched the collective, which is great.
And I think before NFVs, a lot of my photography was client work, but since NFVs, I have had
the...
I think I'm lucky that I had the chance to choose what I could photograph and just travel
more and not click on client shoots that I didn't really want to do, but I did it anyway,
just so that I can make enough money to be able to travel.
So I at least have the following change that for me as an artist.
I don't know if anyone too long, sorry.
No, not at all.
Thank you, Priyanka.
That was a really good intro.
And we'll dive into more of those topics as we go along.
Drift.
I was wondering if you could go next and again, give a brief intro and maybe talk a little
bit about your life, Priy, and post-NFT.
Yeah, absolutely.
Can you hear me okay?
Yeah, we can hear you, Greg.
Awesome.
So before NFVs, I've been photographing for almost five years now.
I started in May of 2018, and at the time, I had been in the army for four years coming
straight out of high school, and then I wouldn't be in the army for two more years after that.
To kind of set the scene, I had never been in anything artistic.
It was never really encouraged in my home growing up, and I enjoy in the army after high
school to kind of get out of the conditions that I was in, continue to be self-sustainable,
which I had been through some of my teenage years, and yeah, by the time that I picked
up a camera in 2018, my life was changing completely.
When I first joined the military, I thought I was going to make it a career.
I thought that it would give me the opportunity to travel, to go to college, to see the world
and also do something active, which I really enjoyed.
I began to feel very displaced and very uncomfortable coming into 2018 about my place in the military.
I became a lot more conscious about my identity as a black man in America, and then in turn,
serving in the United States army, especially at the capacity, and on the level that I was,
began to feel very uncomfortable to me because I did not feel like I was serving a country
that was necessarily looking out for my best interest or the interest of people that would
look like me.
This was on top of me also going through some PTSD that year after losing a couple of my
close soldiers to suicide, who I was working with.
I did not know that my life was getting ready to change so much, but 2018 was a year where
I was completely restructuring as a human being.
I picked up this camera in 2018, and I remember I had been moved out of special operations
to a light infantry unit at Fort Polk, Louisiana in the middle of nowhere, essentially.
I started driving like three hours to Houston, Texas to just shoot with this thing because
I had nothing else to do.
In my personal life, things were kind of in the shambles.
I was in a lot of debt.
I had a lot of things to work myself out of just from how I grew up and things I didn't
know.
Just coming to that point of adulthood where you have to own your childhood and your mistakes,
and you have to correct some of those things and unlearn some of those things that you
learned that weren't good, and also grow consciously into your identity as a free adult now in
the world.
I went to a portrait meetup and stuff with other photographers.
I didn't like it.
I just said it just wasn't for me.
One night I woke up in the middle of the night and I drove to Houston because I had this
dream.
I just told me to go to Houston, so I did it.
I found this skyscraper that was under construction as well as 50 stories tall.
I just remember hopping the fence and going in and taking the steps all the way up to
the top and sitting up there above the city of Houston and just being completely at peace,
like immersed in the moment.
I took a few photos that were awful because I sucked back then, but I just found such
a sense of peace and belonging, and especially at the time, because I was feeling so displaced
because I was feeling so uncomfortable with a life path that I was essentially stuck in
traction until 2022, I had not been retired in 2020.
Finding a place of home and finding a place where I felt understood meant everything to
me and I began to find that in my work.
I would continue shooting.
I had picked up a couple extra jobs to help pay off debt so then I could travel more.
Basically everything in my life started becoming geared towards me pursuing this passion,
and I had no idea really what it would end up being.
I just knew that this was where I felt at home, and I could tell that it was making me a better
human being, this pursuit of urban exploring, and every single time I was going out and
fulfilling this purpose, I felt like a more loving human being.
I felt like a more.
I felt like a more well-rounded human being and began to infect all areas of my life,
and I was doing everything better, including my job at that time in the Army.
Well, I had been injured in the Army for a couple of years, but I had just been nursing
it, injury and pushing through it.
My right leg has some internal damage and is permanently swollen more than my left leg
is.
I had deployed in 2016, they don't know if anything happened on deployment, if it was
a result of that, or if it was the result of what could be any number of other things
was jumping out of airplanes or other forces that I did.
But they decided in fall of 2019 that they were going to medically discharge me.
And then in March of 2020, at the beginning of the pandemic, at the end of March, I medically
retired as a staff sergeant after about six years in the Army.
And so at this point, I had wanted to pursue photography full-time, so I knew that, and
I had been asking for that.
And the universe has kind of opened up and gave me the opportunity.
And so I got out and I just started traveling around the country in my little 2001 Volvo
and shooting everywhere I possibly could, climbing and shooting underground and shooting bridges
and skyscrapers.
And I was selling prints online for a couple hundred dollars at the most back then and
just trying to fund it however I could.
I was involved on Twitter and Instagram with a photography community and I felt like, okay,
maybe this could be something, but I have no idea how.
Especially because it was not like an art form that was accepted by the world.
But inside I always felt like this was meant for me and I just had to keep pursuing it
even if I'm pursuing it in the dark.
So, seven months later, I'd be back at my home city of Cincinnati for longer than a week
for the first time in seven years.
And I would go and climb Great American Tower, the tallest building in Cincinnati.
I had recently shot the Red Stadium to and a few other Cincinnati skyscrapers.
And that night while I was up on the crown of the building shooting, there would be a
police response.
They had seen me on a security camera on the top floor of the building and I didn't know
they sent a response.
I had got done shooting on the crown and went and left the building, heading down the stairs
and unbeknownst to me, there was over 20 officers and like dogs in the building.
And I heard people on different floors, but I just thought, oh, let me get out of the building.
I didn't realize it was such an extensive response.
So what happened after that was a local detective in the Central Business District identified
me with the help of the FBI and Homeland Security, given my military background and special
operations and some of the training I had gone through.
And it's debated if my race played a big part in it, but we do think so.
I was then a warrant was put out for my arrest, but it was put out for armed robbery.
It wasn't put out for like trespassing, you know, and I was neither armed or robbed anything.
But I did not know this.
So I was across country shooting, heading to Las Vegas, Nevada to do what was a big deal
at the time, like my first product shoot, which would pay me, you know, a couple thousand
dollars.
That was a ton of money at the time.
And I was driving down I-40 West with my friend.
She was driving.
I was sitting in the passenger seat because I was not feeling well.
We were outside Flagstaff, Arizona.
The highway was stopped.
Cars were backed up.
We see a helicopter.
We think someone's getting medvedact out.
They're not.
We start driving backwards down the highway arm with assault rifles.
It just looks like something out of a movie, you know.
I was running a fever and in and out of consciousness.
So I was just sitting there sleeping in the car.
Well I come to about 15 minutes later and the car is completely surrounded.
Dogs, police officers, helicopters right overhead.
And they call my name with a loudspeaker and they ordered me out of the car.
They tell me if I move verbatim, if you move, we will kill you.
Next thing I know I'm faced down on the concrete and then I'm being brought to my feet at
see a paper, you know, presented to me.
My face is on the paper.
I'm completely disillusioned as to what's going on.
Well I would be put in the cop car and told I was being charged with armed robbery that
they were, that there was a nationwide worn out from my arrest and then sent to jail in
Arizona.
I wasn't accepted at the jail, sent to a hospital because I was sick, spent five days there,
chained to the hospital bed, called my dad.
My dad called a lawyer.
I got my lawyer and sent in to step with me through the whole case.
To shorten the rest of it, I would spend two months in Arizona with no bond, be brought
back to Cincinnati, Ohio, greet it there and then have the detective go state to state
to try to add on any charges possible with this narrative that I was, you know, a secret
armed robber that could be an enemy of the United States and it became very personal.
It eventually had to fight through five state cases after four months of being incarcerated,
having my bond raised almost half a million dollars.
I finally get out.
I'd be re-arrested twice at gunpoint unarmed and would get into NFTs at the end of April
2021 as a way to start paying legal bills and basically rebuild my life.
I was at home with my dad in his apartment at that time sleeping on the floor because
he had a very small apartment, but we were making do.
You know, I'd got out and I went and got a laptop and just started sharing my work on
Twitter and stuff again and found the NFT space and thought like this might be my ticket
to being able to fight my way through this and not get completely swallowed by it.
I started selling pieces on foundation come June or July.
I got on super rare and started selling some pieces in August of 2021.
I released where my vans go, sold out the first drop and then the second drop sold out in
September, we started to have really awesome secondary sales and then I sold out the third
drop in October of 2021.
And then since then it's just been a really amazing journey.
I was able to pay my lawyers.
I was able to make it do my case.
In fact, my everything officially ended for me about three weeks ago.
So after two years, I have no convictions.
I won all five of my cases and can now go back to creating my work and living my life without
any fear or anything over my head.
So, yeah, the story appeared in the New York Times on June 6, 2021 and that helped raise
a lot of public awareness about the case because until the public eye was really involved,
there was not a lot of help I could get to make sure that I had a fair legal chance at
fighting and that changed a lot when people actually were paying attention to what was
happening.
So I am very fortunate and lucky to be the point one of the point one percent that ever
get a fighting chance at getting their voice heard outside of those walls.
And if it were not for that, I'm not sure that I would be talking right now.
So yeah, that's a little bit about me.
I put out first day out a year later after my release date.
So this past April, April 9, 2022, I released an open edition and it was able to do it on
my own smart contract, Der Manifold, and own site and give that 15 percent that would have
gone to a platform back to the bail project in Cincinnati, Ohio, where it's been moving
in a rotating fund and has freed 60 people and counting and helped them with post release,
like get back on their feet and get to court and do what they have to do so that they're
just not stuck in there because they were low income like I was.
And it's been an amazing journey.
So there's so much more I want to do with my work and whatnot, but that's a little bit
about me, so it takes so much time.
Now, I think suffice to say two things, one that is one of the more incredible stories
Web3 or otherwise.
And the second thing is congratulations on finally wrapping everything up.
Really, truly, glad you finally threw it.
Yeah, absolutely.
We're going to dig in like Priyanka's intro as well.
We're going to dig into some of those topics.
Blessing.
I was wondering if you could give us an intro as well.
Okay.
Hi, everyone.
I'm so happy to be here.
Good for you, Pochin.
My name is Blessing Atas.
I am a phone photographer based in Abuja, Nigeria.
So it's a bit about my background.
Back in high school, I used to paint.
I think I was really good at it.
I mean, I think I discovered I loved painting the first time I started drawing in primary
school.
So I took a point in high school and I continued painting.
But at some points, I stopped.
And it was something that I'd just always been back in my head or something like that.
In the future, I ended up creating art.
I couldn't get back to it.
So my plan for the future was to probably go study arts in union one day, or that did
not happen.
So along the line, I found photography through a friend of mine.
So at some point, I started hanging out with friends that were into photography.
And I saw the friend of mine that I was interested in taking pictures if you could teach me.
So I started following the photography events.
When he has shoot, he'll take me.
If there are events for photography, he'll take me up as well.
Also very nervous for you.
So one of those days when I was with him at this event, there was this photographer
that was hosting photography events here in Abuja.
And while we were there, the host of the event kept pulling me off and asking me questions
about photography.
And at that time, I had no idea or thought about photography.
I just knew that was something that was interesting, but I had no clue what anything about photography
is.
But he kept asking questions.
And there was one point he asked me if I had an interest in photography.
And I said, yes, maybe sometime, I'd like to start.
And he was like, OK.
And then in the middle of that, he just asked people in the crowd if someone was interested
wanting to teach me photography.
And someone raised their hand up.
So I was supposed to learn through that person, person was supposed to be my teacher or something.
But unfortunately for me, he got a job to be like a personal photographer or someone.
So he had to move.
So I was left to like back to square one.
So I went back to this person, the host of the event.
And I told him about, I don't have a money to buy a camera.
I don't know how to start.
And I don't know what to do.
The person I was meant to teach me had moved to somewhere else.
And so he told me to start with what I have, which is my phone.
And at that time, I was using the Samsung S7 Edge.
So I just started taking pictures with my phone.
Still didn't know what kind of photography I wanted to do yet.
So there was a time where they had this photo walk event.
And I was invited as well.
So I followed all the photographers.
I was the only phone photographer.
So I used my friends iPhone 7 Plus.
Why others were taking pictures with their phones, with their camera, sorry.
And when we were doing, so I was speaking about different genres of photography, wedding,
events and all of those things.
And in that moment, I just said, I think I know what I would like to do with my work.
So I think from childhood, I love movies, I love history, culture and all of those things.
So it's what I try to incorporate in my work as the time goes.
So I just started taking pictures.
And I think be it 20, 19, 2020.
I was invited to a photography conference here in Nigeria, going to Lagos.
So I had to travel to Lagos for the conference.
And in the conference, there were amazing photographers from around the world that came.
And there was this lady that really inspired me, I think, to just actually start.
So I can't remember her name is Bella Kaptok.
So she's really great with what she does.
And I think from how I learned that you can do so much with So Little.
So because while she was trying to tell us about how to just explain how she was able
to create with So Little.
And so I picked that.
And when I go back home, I would write my friend over to my house or dress up.
And I just started taking random pictures.
Along the line, I started showing the host of events.
And the person that was going to teach me, like, oh, look what I've done today.
What do you think?
And so they said, like, just helping me out.
We're like, where to go on edgy and what to do, blah, blah, blah.
So I started going on YouTube as well.
And just starting to have to edit photos.
I just understand myself more.
So yeah, this was just immediate for me to start telling my story.
So in 2020, I took up on it myself to take more pictures.
And in that moment, my phone got stolen.
So I didn't have a phone at that period of time.
But I think the basic thing about my story is just having people around me that believed
in my work.
And I believe that I can do something with photography.
So I had all these ideas.
And I would reach out to my friend.
And I was like, oh, I have this idea.
But I don't know what to do.
I don't have a phone.
I don't have a camera.
I don't know what to do.
And so she'd be like, oh, I'm with her for you.
You can use my phone.
And we'll just do this thing.
So I'll tell my friends.
And everyone will just get ready.
My friends will come with their cars.
And give me their phone.
They'll also work for me.
So that was how I was able to create work in 2020.
And also, I think around 2020 as well, a friend of mine gave me his iPhone 7 Plus because
he had gotten a new phone.
And so I joined Clubhouse.
And while I joined Clubhouse, I started going into photography rooms just to learn more.
Because I was still very new to the whole thing.
So I was in the room one time.
And then people found out my work.
And I think in the last time, there was a time when Miss An came into the room.
And some of my workers were, he loved my work.
And he then reached out to people in Apple and then showed them my work, talked to them
about my work.
And they were really impressed.
And they sent me the iPhone 12 Pro just to appreciate the work that I do.
And yeah, so over time, it's just been an amazing opportunity for me.
Because I never imagined that I would go far with just telling stories in my work.
And I think around 2021, I started hearing about NFTs.
But I wasn't really interested in it because I didn't see photography there.
It was more digital ads and all of those things that wasn't really in my field.
But I think along the line, I'm afraid of mine who was already into NFTs.
I started speaking to him about it.
And he unbounded me into NFTs.
And well, so far so good.
I'm still, I don't know what the word is.
I come still finding my way in the NFT world, but so far so good.
So I think that's a bit of my story.
I didn't go into it.
I'm just in details.
But yeah, that's kind of my story.
Blessing just as a quick question.
Are you still an iPhone photographer?
Yeah, I'm still an iPhone photographer.
But hopefully, I'm hoping to buy my camera at the CF-10.
Save up because I want to get the Fujifilm X-84.
So I dream of camera.
So hopefully this year I get that out.
But yeah, I'm still using my fluency creatures.
And I'm going to work on something, come in Sunday.
I might work on something in my field as well.
So yeah.
Yeah, great.
Amazing.
Great.
OK, let's move on to our first topic.
And in order to set the stage here,
I'd like to throw out some statistics on photography
that I think will be interesting for the audience to hear.
So I was doing some research.
And I was looking at the top contemporary artists
in the world ranked by various publications out there.
I won't go through them all.
And some of them I've never even heard of.
But on most of these, on almost all of these,
generally you have in a top 30, top 50, top 100 list,
one maybe two photographers on that list.
Typically Cindy Sherman and maybe
Man Ray on some of these.
So photographers as contemporary artists
are already, it seems, not the most popular people,
amongst people who put together lists of contemporary artists.
So that's sort of fact number one.
Fact number two is that the most expensive,
this is according to Wikipedia, by the way,
so maybe give me a break if it's not exactly right.
But according to Wikipedia, the most expensive photograph
ever sold was $12.5 million.
It was Man Ray's Levi-Linde Ingress.
For you native French speakers out there, please don't hold my,
oh, God awful French against me.
Number two was for $11 million.
And then number three was $4 million.
So just to give you an idea, that's all time.
Just to give you an idea, the 100th most expensive painting
ever sold, number one is Salvador Mundi,
around 450 million, the 100th is $70 million.
So the most expensive photograph ever sold
would not even make, I don't know, a top 1000 list
of most expensive contemporary art pieces in history.
So that's sort of fact number two.
And in fact, if you add up all 30 of the most expensive photographs
ever sold, it turns out that they would equal, roughly equal,
a single painting that was sold in November.
It was Cezanne's, Cezanne's sold in Paul Alle's auction.
I'll spare you my attempt to speak French and tell you the name of it.
But so photography generally does not sell well at auction
or amongst the Tradart community.
So that's sort of fact number two.
Fact number three is, and I want to get into this with this panel here,
but fact number three is that I believe part of the reason
why this happens is that is the following.
80% to 90% of planet Earth, depending on the source you use,
owns a smartphone.
And I think what's happened, and I think what's happening,
is that a lot of folks say, well, I could do that.
I have a camera on my phone, and yeah, it won't look as good as a Priyanka.
But I could get pretty close, and I could get 80% of the way there.
And I can recreate that.
And I hear that a lot, actually.
And the obvious response and the correct response is, well, no, you can't.
But what I want to get into is why?
And I want to talk to this panel.
And maybe the place to start is with you blessing.
But why do you think, A, that the photography community has not
emerged in the same way as the sort of painting, sculpture,
even the digital art space, and web three?
And number two, what is the response to, well, I can do that,
because I can do it on my smartphone.
And maybe the partial answer to that is talking a little bit about your process.
But I'll leave it up to the three of you to address this.
So blessing, if you wouldn't mind kicking us off, I think that would be great.
And Drifte and Priyanka, just please add in as you feel fit.
I think this is the conversation we, like I've had this conversation
with a lot of people even in the NFT space.
I think a lot of people don't see photography as arts,
because even when I speak to my friend that is not even in the NFT space,
just having a normal conversation.
When you talk about your photography as arts,
mostly just when the first thing that comes in mind when they think about arts
is taking and painting on your canvas, that's what they see as art.
And people really see photography as art.
I feel like as, you know, as the, how do I say this?
As we progress, as people, you know,
and the years is growing and the same is growing, like things are changing.
And technology is making things much more easy in a way that we can tell our stories.
We don't have to, it doesn't have to be through just wanting media,
because, how about I say this, sorry, you know, arts is seen in every form anyway.
So art can be told, even in cooking there's art,
I feel like there's art in everything we do.
But for people to, I think it's more for people to see arts in photography,
because as an artist, for me, I'm also going to understand
that there are different forms of art.
There's visual arts, there's storytelling, there's conceptual, there's events,
there's wedding, there's so many types of photography.
And when you come to visual arts storytelling,
and everyone just nature on all of those things,
it takes time for a person to put together something to, to create work.
So I can just think, oh, I can just go out and, you know,
clean my camera and it will give me what I want.
But for me, as a visual artist or as a storyteller,
I plan most of my shoots.
I, you know, I sometimes I write them down, I write my ideas down,
and then I build upon them.
And in order for me to tell the story, the way that I want to tell them,
I have to think of the art field to correspond with the story,
the location, the props, everything has to match to tell that story.
And sometimes it takes years, it takes days, it takes months to put together,
in order for me to tell my story, because I want it to be told perfectly.
But sometimes, I mean, it's not everything that's perfect,
but like, in order for you to tell your story, but for me, I put things in order,
you know, even like for my shoot, I'm planning for it.
And, you know, having the outfits together,
the right models that I want, that I feel like I'm going to tell the story
that I want to tell properly, the models, the location.
So I'm traveling all the way from where I'm to another place,
just to tell the story.
So I feel like if people start to see photography as art,
not just you taking your phone or your camera to just click,
maybe it will be, it will be singing at different lights, I don't know.
But I don't know how long that's going to take,
because I've had arguments in the space where,
you know, I've had like a fellow photographer,
see photographers just taking a picture, like you just going,
you just like going out to take a picture.
And I think that's very wrong because even if you've learned,
you know, how to understand in light,
understanding how you work, or the kind of photography you want for yourself,
or the stories you want yourself, or yourself.
In as much as you've learned that you understand your camera,
you understand your light, you understand everything as a photographer.
Before you tell your story, you still put on that.
And I think just as, you know, it takes a paint or a brush to a canvas,
it's the same thing we take our cameras to the field when we're taking
telling our stories, because before you're painting on a canvas,
you think of the story, you have an idea before you start painting,
and that's the same thing we do as photographers.
So I think if people can see photography more in the art form,
then just, you know, taking pictures, and I think maybe it just starts to change,
or until then, I don't know.
I don't know if I may be upset.
No, that's a great response of Priyanka or Jana,
that you have something to add.
Well, I would say that a big part of the problem that we see in the world is,
there's so much, there is so much exposure to photography, you know,
and to where I do think that there's a desensitization to
to photography and to what goes into it, because it is so
digitally consumable, I think that we see, you know, everywhere you go,
you're seeing photos, whether it's the background on your TV, or as soon as you open up nearly
anything on your phone, and much like everything else in life, the process gets lost on the viewer
to where the viewer can fall in love with the final product, but they don't have to appreciate
the process to get that thing, and that's with most nearly any bit of art, but especially
photography. And as far as changing it goes, I don't know if there's a right answer to that,
because as cameras develop, as things change, it's going to become more and more that way I feel
to where people are like, I can do that because my iPhone can now take sharper images or, you know,
what have you, but I think that like, the last thing was saying, if people were to see the process
behind, what it takes to just get one great image that would completely change their mind on the
value of photography, you know, I mean, I think, at least speaking to my own work, like it can,
some of the images like foreshadowing, foreshadowing had been in my mind for three years before I
finally was able to create that image, you know, where my Vansgo collection took four years to
put together hours of studying architecture and finding creative ways into spaces that
otherwise would be impossible to get to, you know, taking risk after risk after risk in multiple
different ways just to get one image, you know, and it's, yeah, people, people just don't see the
process in that. I think that, I think that that leaves us as the artist kind of in a state where
sometimes we have to bring the process to them, which is, but that doesn't, you know, not everyone
can do that with their art too. If you're a street photographer, you can't walk around with
another camera on a tripod filming you while you wait three hours for someone to walk,
you know, an intersection at the right time with the right weather that you chose to go out in
and just to get this one shot. It's hard to bring people to the process of photography sometimes
and for me and my work, that's why I choose to wear my GoPro, take as much film, like, as much film
on that and my phone and stuff and my camera is causal because I want to bring people closer to
the experience, but if you're someone like Monores or who's a street photographer or like some other
photographers in the space or even like with what Blessing is doing, it's not as easy if you can't
show people everything, you know, whereas if you were to sit down and make a painting or something,
you know, you can film the entire process or whatnot, it's not as simple with photography.
But I do think that in time, I actually am optimistic that we will see not a lot but maybe a few
photographers break this mold in the traditional art world where it will no longer be, you know,
so many older photos that have sold for so much, I think we'll see new photographers do it too
and I think they'll do it by just setting the bar higher with what, how well they can capture,
you know, an image that nobody else can capture and I think that that should be our focus as
photographers in general is just like whatever our genre is, we want to just make it to, you know,
a point of near-unbelievability at how good we've become, you know, or how much we've progressed and,
you know, there's pressure in that but I think that that pressure makes us better and you can't
really put a price tag on it but just the ambition to want to do it, to want to show the world
excellence in that way, I think that it will manifest in price in a traditional art world
eventually too, I do think that in time we will see that happen and that as time goes on we'll see
a few photographers cut through that mold or just so excellent at what they do, the bulk majority
won't, 99.9% won't but that's also, you know, like nearly any other genre, you know, so I don't
think it's impossible but I do think that in order to do so there's going to have to be a drawing
the audience in and drawing the world into process and showing them why it's so valuable which is
something that sometimes like egotistically we don't want to do, we want to put out an image and be
like respect my work just because it's, I think it's this good, you know, but sometimes people need
they need to be brought to, you know, what made this image what it is and so I do think that we
can put in that extra work as photographers and I'm optimistic, I don't know if we're ever going
to be appreciated the same way that other traditional art is but I think the goal is just to make
something so excellent that it defines all past barriers and boundaries and at least I can't speak
for others but like I am on the pursuit of that towards like if I take an image, doesn't matter
if it's one a year, you know, I want it to be on the level where it's like that is top tier
artistry in every single way, you know, from the timing to the conditions to everything it took to
get that like the work, the effort, and I think we should be aiming to set the bar that high
and I think because of the overconsumption of photography it's not only affected the consumer
but it's affected us as artists too where we see so much of the art format where like oh this is good
or this is great but it's like is it exceptional, you know, and some artists and photographers you
see their work and you're like that is exceptional and sometimes as a photographer it like takes
one to no one but generally anyone can see it towards like they are, you know, they're taking
their time with it, they're, you know, they're figuring out they're constantly at work, you know,
bettering their craft and I don't know I think that we can't fall into the trap of like consuming
so much that we we too think that there's barriers we can't break past I think we can and I think we
will if we're determined to do so so that's kind of my thoughts on it.
Oh, let me add a few things here I mean my you know I'll give you my view that no one asked for
but my view is that there's a very interesting parallel between photography and web 3 here
which you touched on which is proof of work and I think the difference for me between photography
and more what's called traditional art and digital non-photography digital art is that you have a
better appreciation in traditional art and non-photography digital art for the work that went into it
I don't think you can fully appreciate it I think there is some works that are just extraordinary
and you're just never going to fully understand how much time and effort went into it but I do
think that by and large with photography it is extraordinarily difficult for the collector to
understand just how much blood, sweat and tears went into it you know I mean I see you know Tyleke
and Kath Samarda, Patagonia and Sleeping Intents and you know there's videos of their tents blowing
in the breeze and you know it's sub-zero temperatures and it's like well you know there's it was literally
you know torture to go through and capture that perfect shot and I think drift what you're saying
makes a lot of sense where there's a proof of work aspect of photography that needs to
come out and I see a lot more artists doing this where they're posting on Twitter about their work
and I think I have to personally encourage people to do more of that where you know it's it's the art
the art is the process and the and the foot you know the final photo is the culmination of that process
but the process itself is art as well which is is is really something fun to read about and understand
Priyanka I was wondering if you might just take a moment and talk briefly you know just expand
on what Drift said and maybe talk about kind of what your process is like and how much time and
effort and pain or you know fun or whatever you want to say you know just however we have to describe
it goes into taking the shot that you feel is worthy of of minting. Sure yeah so I want to go back
a little bit to like for when I realized for the first time because even I was one of those people
who who thought that like I was only taking like pictures of like good locations and that was it
and I was editing them however I liked them and I I was subconsciously developing a photography style
but I never realized that on 2020 when a couple of my photographs were selected for a for a
French shop and Stockholm and they asked me to write about the photos and I was I was like I had no
idea what to do and I was talking to a friend to get some help and she told me that
you were a really emotional person and I like she knows me in and out so she told me that
I know that you associate your memories of the places that you've been to or the songs you've
listened to to the experiences you have had in that duration of your life so use that and see if
you can find something that you can write about when you took the pictures so I think that was
like my first aha builder that okay these are not just pictures they're pictures of a for dying one
this was what I was experiencing in my life or like reminding of someone who helped me get
two things so um 2020 was the first time when I saw myself as not just a photographer but like
an artist and like my photography not just like any other pictures but art I mean even after 2020
it took me a long time so even as a photographer if I'm feeling that way it's it's obvious that
like the masses are also like a little bit uh um I'm also in that room where they think that okay
photography is not art only um and I remember like early in NFTs when a lot of photographers joined in
2020-21 a lot of us saw that we may not belong here there's always hours digital art that was
non-pidermpathy like 2D and 3D and we were all trying to figure out like should we animate our
photos and when someone said us to use until they get the by the way like my genesis was like a
very tall like fun animation of my photo um but um we were all trying to figure that out because
we felt uh as a group of photographers we felt that we didn't fit in um but then slowly like
there's more without the first join and we found us placed uh in in in the NFT space um but um
yeah I think um for a lot of uh for a lot of us uh it's um it's about like photography for a
lot of us it's like at least for me it's about like understanding the moment or um realizing
like and like identifying the elements that make up that moment that you are trying to capture
or remember forever um and um for for me my personal uh personal um offensive style was
uh I was mainly doing photography when I traveled uh just to like calm myself down and like
um I saw myself from my surroundings so I was constantly seeking um calm in the key also on
me that was that was something that I uh realized a couple of years after I started traveling for
photography um so that's why I try to uh also convey when I uh when I um like try to decide which
pictures are like have like have left uh lasting impact on me myself uh and they're worthy to
blend um uh for example like my genesis uh collection was uh forgotten memories it was a tribute
to a music producer called Adeji um I started shooting uh for that collection and intentionally
I had no idea I was doing that but I started shooting in 2013 and up to 2018 with all the
pictures in that collection are in uh in a span of five years but um this music helped me a lot
to get through like a lot of bad times in my life so I wanted to share that experience of
what I went through through my photography and through the music that I associated with it so I
think um these kind of experiences and uh sharing them with the world is what makes
what I shoot more unique than just like any other picture or like uh like anyone else would take
pictures of I hope that would be fun um I'm really sorry I forgot the other question
well no that's so I think I want to I want to actually expand on what you just said briefly
because I think what's interesting to me about photography is exactly what you just said which
is you wanted to take a moment or an emotion or a feeling and express it in a photograph but the
interesting thing to me is that is art but had you picked up a paintbrush and done the exact same
thing and been good at it let's assume you're you know both an excellent photographer what you
are and an excellent painter the painting would have on average than a more valuable
collectible desirable item to the collector community than the photograph but but they're both art
um and it's just interesting to me to to explore that as a collector because you know again
photography just does not seem to have made the exact the same and gain the same amount of respect
as someone who can pick up a paintbrush and do and express the exact same emotion and moment and
and and so forth so I think that's a very interesting comment that you made about about photography
let me let me see I mean I feel like we've done a good job of setting the base for photography as an
art format what I want to do now if it's okay with you guys is I want to tie it to web 3 and bring it
forward and start thinking about photography as as as a future as the future of photography I should
say what is it um what changed with NFTs and web 3 in your mind and I want to take the money out of
this situation because you know we can go through bear markets we can go through bull markets we
just went through a massive bull market now I asked some bear market and I know you know the
photography community is happy because we are buying photographs and and and and FTS of but I
think something more fundamental changed here rather than just a big FOMO pump by a lot of people who
were you know trying to you know trade for photographs online and one of the things I think that
changed is is provenance I think that photography has suffers more than digital art potentially
from this sort of right click and save mentality where you know A I could take that photograph
and B you know the photography community has traditionally sold prints um which I as an aside
I think is highly conducive to additions which we'll get into but you know the photography
community has done generally sold made money through selling of prints and that's because they
are easy to mass produce you take a photograph and you can you know mass produce these in a much
easier way than you can a single oil painting obviously so I want to get your views and I'm
going to throw this open to whoever wants to go first but I'd like to get your views on on what
really fundamentally changed with NFTs number one and number two how do you think NFTs will
impact photography going forward because of that
so again whoever wants to go first
um I'll take it um so I think that I do think that provenance is the biggest thing for
uh photographs in the web three space that has changed for us because
it's one of those things where now we do have a recorded record of this is my image
and I can I can put it out in a way where it can never really be it can never truly be right click
and stolen you know again no one I now have this on the blockchain thing
hey I created this I made this and whether I sell it or not it doesn't really matter like I can
put it out there in a format where everybody knows time stamp and everything this is when I put
this image out to the world I think that that is um a big part of uh what has drawn
on photographers to web three I do think I do think part of it is also just a new um
a new I guess a new audience for photography as well because I think when you're constantly
uh trying to sell photography to a certain audience or whatever um having an audience come around
and say maybe there is something more here just a consideration alone for photographers is a big
deal because um we are normally used to having our work condensed down to like well anybody could
take this or you know anyone with a camera can go and take this photo and that is why I think just
a fresh perspective uh has caused there to be a second book at photography um
it's hard to say this is actually a tough question now that I think about it and I'm talking about it
um but I'm gonna sit on my thoughts for a few more minutes and see if I can um
kind of let this marinate a little bit more in my mind if any of the other two want to do
yeah fair enough um a blessing or Priyanka did you have something to add
yeah I can add something um the first question was what do you think has changed
um to work through your photography was that the question?
yeah that's the question and then and then the follow on if you want to
tackle it as well is what do you think this implies for the future of photography?
um I think for photography well since I left this started I mean photography hasn't really
gotten a lot of like we've been saying here lots of um audience I mean web 3 but as time has gone
I think um last year it really got seen in a way and I think what has changed is just um allowing
us photographers um like the same goes like repoly so in the sense that um we're able to
get what we're worth in terms of like being able to sell our work in prices that we see
our work being worth it I mean before web 3 we usually would just um take pictures and then
post them on social media on instagram twitter wherever you post your work and you know the
the highest you would get is like maybe comments which is really amazing you know people commenting
on your work on how real work is or do you know what can people just say in your work but I think
we we're we're able to um not just have our work in like in a vault where you know it's
time stamp like drift said you know that this is our work and you know from yes to come it's
always going to be there I'm able to um sell our work in what we think is worth you know I'm in
the space and I mean the stabbing the stabbing the stabbing artist is still there but um just
being able to just being able to you know get something for yourself you know not just being
the artist that just put your pictures on social media and probably like maybe so I mean before
now I usually would just sell prints and I'll make like 20 30 highest hundred dollars for my work
but now like I'm able to see the worth of my work I know that I'm able like I can actually um
not just get a career from here but build something for myself and even for my family through
photography like it's changing my life it's giving me opportunities I'm now able to create work
you know not feeling limited not having money to to go to where I want to go or buy the materials
I'm in need for my work so we're NFT I'm able to you know help myself and also help my family
and in whatever way I can um and also um yeah it's just I think it's just a it's just being great
and for for for us photographers you know just also um have more audience from around the world
just see our work and connecting people I've been able to connect with so many amazing people
through this space as well not just um making money but like like when the money goes we still
have people we communicate with we're able to like I think we essentially um Sean that I met in this
space created like an amazing project um with photographers where he was able to you know photograph
um photographers from around the world to create a work just and he called these them I think
close that together you know so we're stuff like that we're able to just connect with people
make something for ourselves and yeah so as time goes I'm just hoping that you know we're seeing
more and not just um like even like the underdogs in the space like the photographer because I
feel like there's so many amazing photographers that they haven't yet been seen in the space
so hopefully in time like we get more lights on photographers and people see that there's actually
passion in this the much of people going around and taking photographs but people are actually
very passionate about their work like I leave and breathe photography like I think I want to
all the time to something I love that even if the money is gone tomorrow because I started without
making anything from photography that even if I don't make anything from me tomorrow I will still
be creating works that tell the stories that I want to that I want to be told you know over time
so yeah I just hope in the future like we you know we're seeing more and I'm speaking from
for myself yeah and for people that I feel like I also in the place where um because
a lot of us aren't really seen so hopefully in time like you know more photographers I've seen
more photographers that are haji service so there's a word
exposure yes more exposures for photographers that are still
does it does it does it work? I'm sorry um just actors that are still new but creating amazing
works they're seeing you know over time so yeah I just hope for the best and hopefully maybe this
year we'll see what happens in this space but yeah that's my take on it that's great Priyanka did you
have anything you wanted that yeah yeah um place points are always blessing and just um I wanted
to talk a little bit more about um how um photography and activities and um have that changed um
a lot of emerging artists um where um they put a lot of photographers it was the first time
that they were getting this validation that their art is worth everything that they go to to make it
happen um and I think knowing that it pushed it happened for apologies and what they were able to
create um and they started um like finally like uh uh doing more projects um that allowed more
creative freedom um which like without anything or without getting that support from studying
their photos as entities was otherwise not possible like I know a lot of um photographers um so I'm
um mainly with emerging uh emerging artists um who enter the space um feeling like they probably
like may get lost may get lost in like the in the noise but then they finally found their stance
and um they finally believe that their art is um worth it I think that's like the key
uh point that I wanted to stress on um for me personally it was also about pushing boundaries um
I mainly uh shared my landscape and cityscape work when I started NFEs but then um I got a
chance to collaborate with world of women uh to shoot portraits um they were they were like
styled portraits it's something that I've wanted to do for a really long time but just for world of
bermani precisely but um it's something that I've wanted to do when I started home in India um
but I never really pushed myself to like go find a model and a stylist and make a pilot to put
everything together and do it but when I was asked by the team of world of women to be a part of this
amazing collection um it helped me push my boundaries and um do these portraits that that I was
potentially doing for the first time ever so um that is also key like um a lot of uh I know I
know a lot of photographers who started taking um more trips from whatever they earned and started
exploring more just so they just so they could like um like finally go to the places that I've
always wanted to go and uh shoot or shoot the projects that they have always wanted to shoot
they bring together a team and make it happen so I think um creative freedom and pushing boundaries
is like a huge thing like health uh photographers uh when it comes to NFEs
yeah I think that it's a really interesting part there's a it's called a flywheel effect
and especially in the photography community now that I'm seeing where you know for example blessing
is shooting photography on an iPhone the more exposure the more she's able to reach out to her
fan base and and sell photographs uh NFTs she can make money to upgrade her camera and that allows
you Priyanka as you were saying to push your artistic process and to uh explore new mediums
which I think is one of the coolest things about web3 it's empowering creators and I can think of
fewer better examples of that than in the photography community so I'm really happy to hear you say
that um as a reminder if you have a question in the audience type it in the chat or put it as a
hashtag NFTQNA on Twitter and it'll get flagged I have a one question now from the audience I'd
like to throw out to you guys and then I'd like to do something fun here um to wrap up a bit of a
lightning round um the question I have from the audience actually I have a couple questions we'll
do these um how do you get your work known how do you get more exposure to the community what's
what's your best way or favorite way to um to get more known in the community and again this is open
forum anybody can jump in well I think there's a couple different ways but I mean if it's
if it's just getting your work known in the community I I think community involvement's a
big like the biggest thing I mean it seems kind of obvious but it can't be understated that you know
you have to like placement it's a lot of things you know um visibility and places where you want to
be at is a big deal you know and so just getting yourself entrenched in the community and then
going out of your way to actually be vulnerable and share your work connect with other people
is a big deal too but I think that my response to this is is not a very popular one but I think
that for artists looking to quote unquote be better known or what have you that that the right
answer is at least to me is always going to be just work on being excellent right and because if
if you are excellent if you are producing excellent work by and large when you
step into the vulnerability of sharing that work with the world you will naturally attract
because you are rising above and because you are separating yourself to create a body of work that
is one of a kind right and as artists I feel like that's what we ought to be doing you know and in a
day and an age where everybody is looking around at everybody else like be that person that is just
you know like kind of has the blinders on and is just there in your own zone creating
the best thing you can possibly create and when you create it did you go back to a drawing board
and you you know keep competing with yourself to get better and better and better because
it's easy and especially in the web 3 space it's easy to just get stuck in an echo chamber of like
and like this guy is it is like being visible or being supportive or artists supporting artists or
whatever but that's not what is going to separate you in the way of light you want the world to
know you as an artist whether you're in the web 3 space or not outright excellence is going to
do that just like when we were talking about earlier with you know you know what is going to
separate you know photographers you know to where in a traditional art world and whatnot and I think
the answer is always going to be just being the best at what you do I don't think that I think if
you build your base on you know I'm grinding online to try to get into a community then you're
grinding for acceptance you're not attracting it you're not attracting something you're chasing
something and at all points in time you want to be attracting because your work is that good you know
and I'll be honest like I if I have a qualm with the web 3 space and with like artists in it I think
this is like my qualms where it's like I think that visibility is confused with productivity and
as dangerous as artists because you should be spending more time with your work and more time out there
hunting you know and hunting for you know what a hunting and being after the pursuit of your vision
and you know the pursuit of excellence then trying to gain acceptance or sales or whatever online
you know and it's easy to get wrapped up and said because all of us want economic freedom all of
us want the money to go out and you know produce a larger vision like we were just talking about
and that's one of the best things in the web 3 space right but the foundation should be
and should continue to be outright excellence right if you're just that good you will never
have to worry about those other things it will just naturally come to you right I heard it said once
like you never have to advertise a fire right and the reason they like impassion the fire is because
like when passion and purpose has its work in you you will just naturally get that good you won't quit
you won't take the days off like you'll just continue showing up for yourself and showing up for your
purpose until people start realizing like hey this person is really really good and I think that
artists either fall into like a couple different traps either they never take the time or the
dedication to get that good or they start working on it and they quit before they ever like have that
breakthrough point and that's not saying like be anti-social and don't get involved but it's saying
like recognize what the priority is you know and the priority is I'm going to be the best artist I
can possibly be and attract everything else attract the collectors and attract the other artists
supporting me in a track and if it's not authentic then why would you want it if it was built on
just visibility in the community and and just trading likes and retweets and stuff like that
you don't even want that because it's inauthentic or you shouldn't want that because it's inauthentic
right but if it's built off genuine love and connection over like hey I recognize and I respect
the level of excellence you are putting out the level of work the level of time level of dedication
the level of sacrifice that you have put into being this good of an artist I respect it
both from other artists and from collectors that's what you want right and it's easy to get caught up
because everybody sees dollar signs and everybody sees you know uh you know having like popularity
in this niche micro section of the internet and stuff like that but like think bigger think
think a lot bigger than that think about not not just what you're doing in this space but what
you're doing in the world and I think when it comes down to it's like we are or should be after the
pursuit of excellence at all times just letting love drive us to be that good and we will see
naturally as you come and you finish when you you know you have the balance to have your time
online and put your workout and engage and do those types of things naturally you will see
the gravitational pull that your sacrifice has had and and your work I think it's better you'll see
okay now I'm starting to get the support now I'm starting to get the collectors it just takes
time and it just takes effort but if it's built on anything else it's probably not worth having a
build on because whatever you build the foundation on is whatever can crumble it at the end of the
day too you want it just built on outright respect outright excellence and just love and I don't feel
like that's preaching up in the web through space I don't feel like it's preaching up to artists in
general because everything we have is inside of our everything we need is inside of ourselves
and it's our jobs to go and dig it up and produce and bring forth a body of work to the world and I
think we should all be after that so sorry for my mini-ramp but that's what I think no that was
an excellent response I think that there's an aspect to web three where it's so new and the gains
were so quick and the photography community has been I don't want to say disrespected but
but not quite at the same level as the traditional art community for so long that it's very very
difficult for photographers to enter this space and not see oh my god you know dollar signs and
drift I think you summed it up extremely well that it's it is hard to look to the long term but it is
by far the best indicator of future success I think and I think you you said it better than I can
even summarize it so I'll leave it there Priyanka I'm blessed I wanted to give you an opportunity
to respond to this as well if you had any thoughts and if you don't that's fine too but if you did
well I'd love to hear from you. Yeah it's actually difficult to follow what drift is said I guess
both sides I always think it's like a mic drop speech but I would like to answer this from a point
where it actually depends like I'm not sure who the person is who asks this like if they're only
starting out with their photography or like with their art medium and they just want to know how to
like dive into the community because I have talked to a lot of people who just join and they were
finding it difficult just leaving like find a community and like just basic struggle of like
finding people to interact with and like where do they start so apart from like all the creative
stuff on like whatever drift said I would just like to add like one key thing for web
tree especially and it's because it was in our hands to decide how we want our community to be
like outside of web 2 it's always been like community is it is like key to how use how your
experience will be like in this space like focus on like finding your people like it was really
had I entered entities without knowing a few photographers from twitter already it would have
been difficult for me as an introverted person to even go and be in someone and just say hi even
and make new people so like I think the key thing is like finding your people and people that
share the same values as you do and like that's like the first step like of course you show up
every day you share your art you try to improve on your art every every chance you get all of these
things they're there but like from from the community perspective it's just the little things that
you do and and like always do it like I don't know how they say this but um you do things for
the community without expecting anything in the end to turn like nothing at all you just do it
because you want to and you show up because you want to not because you have to um as in when you
are like improving on your clock and you keep showing when people will notice you there's no way that
excellent art will get go unnoticed even with emerging artists it's just a matter of dying
um I know everyone hates like even I did but everyone hates being told you have patience
but it truly truly takes a lot of patience together if very few people like a very small
percentage of people will find that fame where they go popular like just right away um and it's
okay to not be on that same vibe as that person um you just have to be okay with how your journey
in art um goes like um yeah great answer thank you Priyanka blessing did you have anything you
wanted to add um yeah um so I would like to take a small route to this question in the sense of
where I'm from and all of this yeah yeah um so um yeah great great I don't well
putting yourself out there is one thing and you know being accepted is another thing and
um I don't want to seem to be like a sad thing but it's just like from my own perspective
someone from this continent um it's been really um I think it's it's kind of difficult
to be involved um coming from this other side side of the world in this space because um to an
extent um it's really hard for us to get seen even regardless of how much we put ourselves out there
you know our self and our work out there um it's pretty difficult I think even to the points where
I think yesterday you know there was an issue with somebody um trying to sell their work and
being told you know because of where you're from you're not meant to sell your work for this particular
amount which is it is harder to hear because I mean like we're talking about like it takes a lot
for you to create a piece and to to value your work in the way you feel like your work should be
valued so like Priyanka said it's finding your people in the space and just you know finding
people that accept you which takes time because again from where I'm from it takes time when you
would even accept you or accept the work that you do because to an extent they don't see you in
how do I say this I'm not trying to design you know they don't see you in the sense that you can
create a museum work because you're from a certain part of the world so you really have to over push
yourself over work yourself to be seen and even on that level you're still not taking seriously
because of where you're from so a lot of us are in the space um not just me I mean I think people
from other parts of the world really find it difficult you know being seen or being heard in
the space because of where they're from I think that plays a big impact in people's working with
three so I don't know if that's ever going to change but I'm hoping that you know as the time
go because like like I keep saying like you know we're still very early we're three we're three
still we're still very early so hopefully as time goes you know we are you know being appreciated
for what we create and not where we're from to determine like the kind of what we create so yeah
I think that's my own inputs but yeah just what fighting sorry no I was just sorry to interrupt
you I was just going to ask you a follow up to that and then I want to jump to a different topic but
just very quickly blessing I mean I can't imagine trying to overcome some of the barriers of web
three being from Nigeria as an up and coming and outstanding photographer what has been your most
successful strategy for tackling that that exposure barrier? So I'm not really good with
like business parts of photography because I'm just like I just love to create so I think also
web three has you know we've just been into web three has made me maybe understand it to be more
like putting myself out there I'm sure in my work more than I used to because I'm very shy and you
know so I've been able to put myself out there more I don't think I have a particular strategy
other than just sharing my work and hoping that you know whoever who whoever does the work and
appreciates the work for fortitude you know finds the work but like yeah I don't think I have any
like strategy or doing anything different I just put my work out there share my stories I used to
go into like shame and space I don't think they do that anymore but I used to go into shooting spaces
before I just you know share my story share my work but it wasn't really doing it lots because
again like I said I feel like when I mean there are so many success stories from people from
from people in Africa here or in Nigeria doesn't mean it does made sales I'm done
incredible for themselves but it's still very difficult for a lot of us from this side of the
world because I don't know there's just this stereotype when it comes to people from this
part of the world and I'm just hoping that change but I don't really think I have like a particular
strategy when I just share my work and hope that you know whatever happens happens yeah yeah I kind
of along the lines of what Drift was saying where it's just persistent excellence in your work
Priyanka I know you wanted to add something yeah
yeah actually so I think I love that you've brought that up and I think I was too nervous
and I can't believe you've learned but I also wanted to talk about this a little bit more because
being a South Asian photographer a lot of my friends who are from in there on other parts of
South Asia last December I'm not sorry about December December 2021 we all the first
felt like we were just like speaking into the void and it was going nowhere so like we all just
like directly decided that okay we need to do something to fix this and like do spotlight
like give every artist that like we knew there was just a tour of Lucha that we were talking
about our personal experiences about the space and everything so I just came up with the idea
that okay let's do one thing let's pick an artist a day and we will share his or her work and
we will see how that goes and there were 34 of us who did this for almost two months we did it
every other day and we did end up getting a few sales for a for a bunch of us which was amazing
to see but I think just finding creative ways to help get the art scene is key like this is why
we formed the Borrowy Lefty as well like we wanted to help emerging artists underrepresented
artists to get seen and it all started with me just asking on Twitter like
this was back in July 2021 when I felt like I was like really like alone and there were not many
facilitation photographers in this space I just tweeted saying that okay I'm just waiting for someone to
like finally like bring some spotlight on to the foundation photographers in the space because
I felt really alone and then I had this friend Samjae he's a he's a Korean American artist he just
replied to my tweet saying that hey okay that's that me horse is space just spotlight
photographers from India and we can do it in on cyber he hadn't he had a gallery
and then I started looking for other Indian photographers in the space and we had this group
of like 25 people that that I could put together and we did a spotlight space for each one of us
and I think that was the first time I think 6 5 2 9 was also had a very new account on Twitter
and that was the first time I think he came across this space that we were hosting and I still
remember all of us do that he just commented nice and we didn't enjoy 5 times like we were like okay
and then it went from that one Twitter space where all of us talked about our work that was
being exhibited in all cyber gallery to us spotlighting each other a couple of months later because
we we firstly found out people in in that tiny group of the in that small group on our Twitter chat
to them forming the borough and dropping our first collection of curated art which sold out
on the day of the job which was nothing that we ever expected like the bear market has just hit us
and we had no idea if you were going to sell out even like we thought it would take like a week
or two weeks or a month even to sell out because all of us were emerging audience except for a
couple of them that had that were already on to bread or they were well known so we we didn't
really know what the outcome of the job was going to be like but it's um I feel like incredibly blessed
but we sold out the like in less than 40 minutes which is pretty amazing and um that started like
a whole new journey for the borough and saltation artists in this space and it's been incredibly
so far that's great that's a great tip and also congratulations I would just add something real
quick and then I wanted to move on to the lightning round because we were running out of time in
fortunately but um real quick I would just add that you know there's a lot of people on twitter
who post GM in the morning good morning 6 5 2 9 posted every single morning uh barat who's on our
team posted every single morning um when you reply GM if you're an artist and you reply GM my
suggestion is reply GM and post of uh one of your pieces of work it's not chilling it's kind of like
a signature so you know GM sincerely bat soup yum um and that I've actually found quite a bit of
work as a collector just scrolling through twitter feeds and seeing in a non-intrusive non-shilling
type of environment just oh wow this is a really nice piece and then you click on the profile and
you click on their link tree or what have you um and I that's a suggestion I have just it when you
respond to a GM thread or a thread that is not really that topic specific just you know when you
respond to it also post of one of your pieces and I think that's been a good way to get exposure um
I would like to move on to the lightning round but blessing I think you wanted to add something real
quick um yeah so just I just wanted to add to um just having this in the space um so I just wanted
to highlight um so one of the things that was able to bring some of us to like the limelight
at the time was when I think we signed to Copeland himself to work have this initiative where
it was street tasers where he was able to just highlight like incredible assets in the space
um just buying their works and proving that you know incredible walks in con from people around
the world not just like a particular place so I just wish like you know more people can
just take upon themselves to like highlight highlights other artists in the space and also like um
you know find take the time to like look for artists not just the ones that they know but like just go
and actually look for us because we're here and you know hopefully everything changed
so just go on to that thank you. Great thank you for following up blessing okay we're gonna do
something fun here real quick and there's a couple more questions that need to be answered and I'm
gonna answer have you guys answer them in a lightning round format and what I mean by that is I'm
going to throw out a topic and then um anybody can go it's open forum but I would like you to limit
your response to no more than 60 seconds okay so let's see and then we will wrap up so I'll do
like three or four of these topics let's start with additions drift I know you've done an addition
very successfully in the past there are additions it seems like every time I open my twitter feed
there's an addition that they are very very popular right now and I personally believe a
fantastic way for an artist to connect with their community I'm curious your thoughts on them
okay my thoughts are artists focus on your one-of-one work first um because your one-of-one work is going to
a start building out your collector base gives you a an idea of letting the market decide some of the
value for your work you start to get feedback on you know how good is my work you know what's it
being valued at and whatnot and then focus on just connecting with different people and and
getting your work out there and focus on your additions after you've focused on your one-of-ones
it's not popular but I think that it's a very good model if using your additions as a way to target
people of different that have different budgets to spend I think is the best way to do it and you
do that by kind of to me by kind of starting with the one-of-ones and working your way down to
different levels of additions different addition counts etc so that's what I would say and I think
that they're a wonderful way to connect with people that have certain amounts of money to spend
make your work accessible to a lot of different people and broaden your collector base
yeah um so yeah I definitely agree like it's an amazing way to
involve the community around you and like make it make your art accessible to them it doesn't
matter like what the amount is it's mainly about making your art accessible for people who've
always wanted to support you but they couldn't buy your one-of-ones so I think and even for me
personally I realized that back in like August 2021 when I released my first edition it was an
edition of 10 and a decent device edition so and I had no idea if it was I was gonna sell like only
a couple or anything but like good of it I know like I had friends who had been meaning to guys
my work but couldn't so and it told out in a day so I was like that was the first like my aha
moment like okay wait um I do have people who want to support me but not necessarily get my one-of-ones
so um I think that was the first time um editions really like um entered my um like my um like my
I don't know like my afy eagles I guess
great blessing did you have anything that you want to add
I'm still finding my way with edition but I think it's like everyone has said I think it's a great way
to also like maybe friends um and people that can't afford your one-of-ones to get in and maybe
support your your work in in that way so it doesn't have to be all the time
uh or like every now and then you can have something where people can just support um
yeah but I think I'm more of a one-of-one artist but I that's why yeah
yeah so I'm really confident that you think it's no problem no problem okay so the next topic is
going to be a tough one um and again limit your responses in 60 seconds but this was a question
for the audience and I'm we could spend an entire session on this but I'm going to throw it out
there uh with for a quick response AI AI and its impact on particularly photography
oh okay that's really really tough one um I think um I think it's going to help my
for for photographers who wanted to you know like explore and travel but they cannot like I know
a lot of people who who wanted to travel but they just cannot because of their circumstances
it definitely gives them this whole other medium to create work that they would have had they been
able to travel so I think it's it's great that AI is giving them that I know uh competent
put on feel like making collages also one of those but like creating what you see in your in your
mind and and using AI to build that as a an add on to your photograph it's it's an amazing thing
that we have here so um I think it's a great thing
I would agree with Priyanka I see AI is not necessarily a replacer of photography but as an
addition maybe to you know take a photograph and then use AI to reimagine it into something
great or big or I think that there could be a lot of interest there some people would argue
that it takes away from the photograph I would argue that it could be possible to make an even
greater piece of art uh than with the assistance of AI I don't know if I would necessarily
you couldn't contribute at all to photography at that point but you could still
uh contribute it to be an artistic creation so I think that there could be some really cool world
from Mok there great blessing did you have anything one of that um yeah I yeah like everyone I said
I think AI is pretty interesting um like jitter said I think I mean everything in life has its
advantage and disadvantage so it's it's how we use how we use them and how we go about them so
I I think with AI for photographers you know if you have like like like a like for me now a visual
artist or I have a story I want to tell but like I can't you know picture it or imagine me so I
can go to AI and you know just type in what I'm thinking before I'm able to like maybe construct
my work and go out in the field to create a story so I think it has that advantage and
probably that disadvantage I really don't know but so far I don't think it's just going to like
take over photography or anything in that sense because um yeah at the end of the day um there's
this name that's the original will always be the original so yeah I don't think it's changing anything
maybe I didn't say but I don't think it's really changing I find it fascinating that the three of
you have such a positive stance on AI I think um I think a lot of folks are afraid of it and
and a lot of artists are keeping a very open mind about it so that that was a really interesting
response but let's do two more um platform yeah go ahead blessing I was going to say it I mean
before photography you know we used to um it was there was a it was painting you know with your
pin brush and and then photography came you know people were scared like or will photography
take over you know arts itself like painting and then digital arts came so I mean I don't see
anything like really really changing so I don't think there's anything to be scared of if you know
what you're doing I don't think you should be scared when you know what you're doing I don't so
yeah that's what I wanted to answer yeah yeah a great great response great response um
okay two more and then we'll wrap up um platform I know a lot of folks are using artists are using
their own contract now um and I'm curious if you have had an experience you know using the different
platforms you know for an upcoming artist for you know advice to collectors or what have you
how do you feel about the various platforms that are out there and selling through them
um so I think with the wonderful making it like very accessible for like a lot of artists to
um make sure that they have their own smart contracts it's been a game changer since like last
December and um I think no matter what platform you decide or you choose to list it on um as long
as um even if you're a new artist just like ask around and like um like they made it really easy
for anyone to figure out how to deploy the contract and mint and everything so um just
irrespective of what platform you decide to sell on um having your own smart contract is going to be
very very important like two five ten years down the line um that's one thing that you
like any artist even join your space now um need to remember I know OpenSea used to be like
the first point of entry for anyone joining um but that's changed since uh medical became um
medical became available to everyone to use um yeah
can I add to yes please um so I for me I think um just having different platforms is great and
also it's mindful like you have new contracts for your work is amazing because um you know um
your success story may come from from anywhere it can be on foundation I've seen people that you
know have works on this platform and you know didn't even say well nothing like that happened but
like you know they tried this platform and you're doing so well on that so I think it helps with like
you just try not new things because this is a space to you know meet people and also just try
to put yourself out there because if if your audience isn't here your audience would definitely
be somewhere else so not limiting yourself to just one place I think in this is where your
success story or your or your success may come from so I mean even to the point as as down to like
Solana and Tesos you know so and they also have to like meetings so people that kind of
forwards to meet on Ethereum you know their means on Tesos or Solana which you know I don't think
there's a lot of money we spend on like the other platforms so I think just having different
platforms and people just being able to try different things to see where and where works for
them is is great so you know tonight oh you're pretty glad great great drift did you want to add
anything yeah I would say when you're first starting out I think that it is important to keep an
open mind to different platforms because each platform can provide different things you know
when I first came into the space you know I was on foundation I was on super air I have you know
a collection and an addition on open sea you know but I think that the whole you know one of the
ethos of web 3 or one of the things we should be working towards is you know liberation of the
artist and artists being more autonomous right and so we need to take that thinking into the
platforms that we use to and this is something I wish I would have looked at and paid attention to
sooner and 2021 and you know early 2022 when you know we were still in this outrageous bull market
you know but I think that I think every artist goal should be to be completely autonomous at the
end of the day to where we are building on our own smart contracts releasing on building and
releasing on our you know own sites and stuff like that and that's why I think Manafort is
one of the best things to have happen to the space because it is truly there to give our it
it reinforces the ethos that we talk about and in this space and it gives artists the tools to be
completely self-sufficient should they choose to be right and I think that's very important
I think at first when you're first getting into things there's pluses and minuses to being on
OpenSea or a super rare whatever you know be it curation or you know wanting to put different
bodies of works you know in different places but I think the long-term goal should be complete
autonomy over our work how we sell it royalties everything along those lines right and so
I'm not just my thought on that yeah yeah yeah great responses you guys I really appreciate that
well this is a nice segue into my final question and the final topic we'll cover before we close
if we were sitting here last year I think one of the responses to this question would be
what you just said drift and the question is as follows if you could change one if you could
if there's one thing in web 3 that you are most looking forward to to either advance your work
or advance the photography space what do you think that should be so for example drift you
talked about you know minting on your own or you know minting on your own contract which was a
big step forward for artists in the space is there something else like that that is looming out there
that you're really excited about or you think should happen or you're really looking forward
to that would really again help your work or advance photography even further what else can be built
what else can be done well I definitely am looking forward to you know more artists
you know getting on manifold and and taking taking their ownership over their work that they not only
deserve but you know should desire as well but I think my answer might be a little bit different
than what people would expect but one of the things I'm looking forward to the most is just
the space is so new and so fast paced and so
and was like so volcanic when you know in 2021 early 2022 and there was a lot of money made
and there was a lot of just there was a lot of just chaos if we're being honest right and now
you know the bear market gives people time for the dust to settle you know the tides kind of coming
in you know and I think one of the things it does is just curb unrealistic expectations
and I think that that is something that I am looking forward to seeing change for artists right
like you have artists come in the web 3 and they find success but what does success comes
a huge amount of expectations for from people who maybe are not traditional art collectors
or or have like made a good amount of money off this artist or whatever and so then there's an
expectation of visibility there's an expectation of you know providing different things there's an
expectation of you know wanting the artist to be a certain way at any given point of time and I
think that as time goes on it's going to show that like a like great art takes time it takes
not just time to make but it takes intention so that the artist can't always be everything
that the space places expectations on them to be and I think that that has been hard and like
talking to other artists and like other artists that have found like a significant level of success
like they've felt very similarly and so and it's hard to create art from that type of
standpoint and so I I think just time is what I'm looking forward to and seeing how that
changes our expectation of what we should expect from artists I think it's amazing that artists
are being equipped in these in new ways and like having resources in new ways but what's the point
if they don't have the time to take those resources and like put them into like a multi-year plan you
know and then it's like if if the artist is doing that will you afford them time to execute that
vision will you afford them time to you know create what they're creating some people will you know
but because of the space and how fast it's moved and the money that's been created in the film
and the chaos a lot of times I don't feel like that's always been there and just speaking from
personal experience it's like if I even just had to break down what the last two years have been like
you know even outside of like you know like I really felt like okay I came to a point where like
there's something wrong when like not just going through the past two years and everything I've had
to deal with but then also like dealing with the loss of like a sibling that I cared for and stuff
like that and I'm still getting like demands on like an open edition I did where I promise nothing
right that's like to me it's like okay there's a problem there there's like an illness there to
where it's like what's the separation and I get that there's always going to be some people like
that right and I get as an artist it's something that it's like a burden you have to carry at times
but I'm just looking forward to when there's more years underneath our bill as a space to where we
can see like okay this is what an artist has done over the course of not just one or two years but
three five ten you know and we start to see like okay the long-term vision because I know for us
we're thinking in terms of years decades lifetimes you know and I feel like because of how fast
things have turned and burned in this space that's a loss sometimes and to try to go and explain that
is exhausting and to try to like get people to see it through your eyes as an artist is exhausting
and so a lot of times you just stick to no explanation at all like I just have to go and and do it and
accept that people will understand it later so I think for me that's the biggest thing I'm looking
forward to seeing change is just time and what time we'll do to people's perception of artists in the
space and especially photographers what you see a photographer doing now might not be what you
see them doing in five to ten years but are you trusting that they are out there working every
similar day they're out there trying to be better I think we should be you know any of the artists
that we're investing and we're investing in and them and who they are in their character and
and our love for now and their work but but them and and where we see them going and the the character
they've displayed to create this work you know so I'm I'm looking forward to that a lot
yeah the bear market and maybe perhaps getting to normalize markets will allow everyone I think
to take a deep breath and really focus on what matters and what's important in this space I think
that's a great response thank you for it and blessing and Prionka I want to clarify something
here as well if if there's not a whole lot that you're thinking that you know hey I'm really looking
forward to this any closing comments as well or certainly welcome so you know please feel free to
you know avoid not necessarily answer the question directly and you know just comment on
on you know life in general in the future and then we'll wrap up
so
I just wanted to ask my quick thing that could take off like one thing that I'm looking forward to
the most but the most but like the good thing to do is having more traditional collectors being
on board in the next couple of years it's an incredibly difficult task but it's something we need
for the space to thrive and feel bigger so that's one of the things that I'm looking forward to
and yeah I just want to thank everyone for being here and joining me there
joining the talk and blessing and just thank you for sharing all your views about and your
artistic journey and that's really a thank you so much for hosting us it's been great thank you
thank you so much
blessing if you had a closing comments as well we'd love to hear them
um thank you so much um I think also for me what I like to see um as time goes just hopefully
imagine artists just get more visibility to the space and just like Prank has said
um having more traditional collectors or people that
should I say value the arts a bit more in the space so that um yeah so so that we'll have
I don't know so that yeah so now we can just have like a different spectrum in the space of you
know the collectors we have now and just having more people come and hopefully get more opportunities
from the space and I've been looking forward to this and I'm from Denys' space and just opening
in future like a more
space um yeah and just don't say thank you so much to everyone who came to listen to us and thank
you to Brianna and Clark and to Drift and really thank you to you and
Valentino for putting this together it's been an amazing space just listen to everyone
um talk about photography and you know the passion for arts it's just been incredible sorry
about that can you hear me yeah you guys hear me
yeah we can hello can you guys hear me now yeah okay great um I apologize I had a
technical difficulty there okay wonderful well I we are certainly out of time we've gone a
couple hours here I apologize to the audience we weren't able to get to all of your questions
but I do hope that this session was um productive educational and fun for you all it was an
honor to be here and it was particularly an honor to be here with these three just fantastic artists
very humbled to have been able to participate in this and I just want to say thank you to the
three of you and thank you to UNIC for hosting and hosting all of these like it's just extraordinary
educational sessions so thank you all thank you for letting me be a part of being a part
of